stat702 quiz 3

due 3 June 2022


0.  Submit your work via canvas.

1. Submit documents in PDF form and R package in .tar.gz form.  You
can use, e.g., LATEX, Word, knitr or Sweave to create your report, as
well as RStudio as editor of the source files.  Formats other than pdf
cannot be marked.

2. The R code required to complete this assignment, which includes
code to support your conclusions and answers, must be embedded in the
document in the corresponding answer as text (not image).  This code
will be marked.  Unsolicited R scripts submitted separately cannot be
marked.

3. It is not necessary to copy and paste the question text, just make
reference to each question, e.g., Answer Question 1 (a), Answer
Question 1 (b), ... , etc.

4. Read carefully â€“ Answer all the questions as requested.  Any
material, R code, R output or information unrelated to the correct
answer may result in a significant reduction of marks for that
question.

5.  No cover sheet is needed.

6. If you need an extension or if your performance has been impacted
by some extenuating circumstances, then you must complete the special
consideration form.

7. The comprehension of the questions is part of the assignment.



QUESTIONS

Q1 (30 marks)

You are working as a quality engineer and you expect to receive a lot
of 25,000 units of a product that is key in the production system of
the company. The management office instructs you to consider the
following specifications: an acceptable quality level of 0.005; a
probability of rejecting a good lot of 0.05; a rejectable quality
level of 0.07; and a probability of accepting a bad lot of 0.05.

(a) Why would you use a sampling plan? 

(b) One of your colleagues suggests the following plan: "take a random
sample of 33 units and reject the lot if there are at least two
defective units".  The management office asks you to analyse this new
plan. What would you conclude and advise? 


Q2  (30 marks)

A statistics lecturer decides whether or not to take his umbrella to
work.  It might be: rainy or snowy or fine with probabilities 10%, 5%,
0.85% respectively.  His loss function is:

no umbrella--- rain: 8;  snow:  9; fine: 0
umbrella------ rain: 0;  snow:  0; fine: 1

Analyse this situation in terms of expected loss.  Should he take the
umbrella?


Q3 (40 marks)

As per lectures, create an R package using Rstudio.  The package need
only contain a single function, but this must not be the hello
function created by RStudio.  A simple numerical function is fine, for
example:

f <- function(x){x^2+1}

and something of equivalent complexity is fine.  Do not use this
example, create your own.  Ensure that your package passes the R
checks, and also ensure that your function is documented adequately.
You will have to ensure that the DESCRIPTION file etc are correctly
edited with correct information.

Create a file using the "build source package" on Rstudio's "build"
tab.  Submit the .tar.gz file to Canvas.

Watch either the panopto recording on Canvas, or the following link
on YouTube:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9PyQlbAEujY&ab_channel=trestletech
