This is a reminder about the portfolio, which is to be submitted via
Turnitin.  I have uploaded a couple of portfolios from last year to
show what I'm looking for; these are available under the 'resources'
tab. These portfolios are pretty good but not perfect.

Recall that the idea of a portfolio is: "procure a small dataset from
your everyday life and apply the methods of STAT601 to it".  A good
size of dataset is say 20 lines and 4-7 columns: note that you must
have data arranged so that each row is an observation.  People in the
past have used data from their hobbies, their favourite sports teams,
their work, home life, and so on.  Small and personal is good; I am
not looking for anything deep or profound.  One student had a
spreadsheet of a particular video game that he played with his partner
(each row was a single game); another used a dataset of time in
minutes of phone calls to her mother and friends (each row was a phone
call).  Another student dug up carrots from his garden and weighed
them (each row was a carrot; he measured their weight and length and
colour and number of leaves); lots of people used travel time (on the
bus or train) to college, in which case each row was one day's travel,
including morning travel time and afternoon travel time.  One recent
portfolio analysed marks out of 10 for different aspects of the coffee
shops in Auckland's CBD: each row was a coffee shop and the columns
were things like scores for flavour of coffee, decor, music, and
attractiveness of the barista.

A good portfolio will use a range of techniques to analyse the data.
I'd expect some scattergraphs and linear regression, some discrete
tests such as Pearson's chi-squared.  It would be very very good if
people tested for counts being Poisson.  Remember to state your nulls!

A good portfolio will have a good dataset which is amenable to
analysis using STAT601 methods!  I am looking for your ability to
choose and explain a suitable dataset.  Remember that I will not
necessarily be familiar with your dataset.  If it is about a
particular cricket team, for example, then I will not know who they
are and you have to tell me about them and why you are interested in
them.  If you are studying the temperature of your fishtanks, I want
to see a photo of them so I can understand your dataset in context.

I want to see people calculate p-values for their different tests and
*interpret* them!  What does the null mean in the context of your
dataset?  How do you interpret a rejection of the null?  What have you
learned about your data?

In the introduction, include a picture and explain what the dataset is
about, what your connection to it is, and why Robin might be
interested in it.  Here are some example good and bad introductions:

BAD: I will analyse a Fnatic dataset for statistical patterns.

GOOD: "Counterstrike" is a popular first-person perspective video game
which has a world-wide following <reference>.  Competitive
counterstrike matches <picture here> may have prizes exceeding
US$10million.  Here I analyse play-by-play dataset of Fnatic, one of
the most successful syndicates of all time.  Being Swedish, I have
been following Fnatic since they formed in 2004.

The BAD sentence gives me no information to go on.  See how the GOOD
one introduces your datast to a person who has never heard of either
the team or the sport and provides motivation for me to be interested
in it too.  The BAD one leaves me clueless.

BAD:  My data refer to coffeeshops in Auckland

GOOD: Coffeeshops form part of the urban environment of modern
Auckland and here I analyse a sample of 10 coffeeshops for quality of
coffee, atmosphere, price, and attractiveness of the barista. <insert
picture of favourite coffeshop here>.  I worked for Starbucks in the
1990s, and am interested in how coffee-shops have changed since then.

The BAD sentence above does not put the study in context as it does
not tell me why I should be interested in coffee shops.  The GOOD
sentence shows me something of your thinking about coffeeshops in
general, and tells me explicitly why you have a personal connection to
this topic.

BAD: table 1 shows fishtank data.

GOOD: Tropical fishkeeping is a popular and inexpensive hobby for
thousands of people.  However, many fish species are very sensitive to
temperature variations and it is important to control tank
temperatures for fish well-being <figure>.  Last year I lost three
fish due to the cold and subsequently bought an aquarium heater; I am
keen to understand whether it works.  Table 1 shows my dataset, of
which each row corresponds to one day and the columsn show temperature
in the morning and evening....

A good portfolio will have a summary section which picks out
interesting or otherwise meaningful findings.  Do not feel that
signficance is needed for a good summary.

GOOD: I have analysed 35 DeathChainsawKiller (tm) games between me and
my partner for statistical patterns.  Although I was expecting to win
more games when using GiantBashingClub weapons than NukularChem
weapons, there is no strong statistical evidence for this being the
case.  However, I did find that morning games were statistically more
likely to end in a draw than evening games (Fisher's exact test,
p=0.043), probably because my partner works night-shifts and is tired
in the morning.

GOOD: I analysed a dataset of 14 of my cosplay friends for the number
of wigs they own as a function of age and gender.  No strong
statistical trends were found.  However, I did discover that the wigs
were not distributed evenly among my friends (chi-square, p=0.023),
probably due to a single outlier: Michael has a very large number of
wigs, being a wardrobe manager.


